need to add credit to this

Essentially we used to trade with various things to represent value. Gold being one of them. However, gold was not very
DIVISIBLE, easy to STORE, hard to TRANSPORT. However, it was widely ACCEPTED AND RECOGNIZED VALUE (except it could have
been mixed with another metal, which is hard and expensive to determine) and it was hard to obtain, rare and required a
lot of work to do so (money needs to represent work/value) which is an important aspect of money

Later the dollar note represented gold because it solves some of these issues to an extent. Easier to hold/TRANSPORT,
easily DIVISIBLE, easier to STORE, widely RECOGNISED and ACCEPTED as value and hard to obtain because it represented X
amount of gold

https://wtfhappenedin1971.com/

In 1971 by president Nixon gold was taken off the dollar standard. Now the dollar is not represented by work and printed
out of thin air. It also has zero transparency and is rapidly losing value. Some good charts and info on this here

So last year over 20% of all money in existence was printed. The rich put all their money into assets (as they gain
value over time), while those that live paycheck to paycheck can’t really do so. Since all the money goes into assets (
housing prices, stocks etc) their value keeps increasing and each dollar represents less and less against these assets,
making the rich richer and the poor poorer. Hence CPI being over 7% right now. Actually higher when you consider housing
prices (1940’s 2x AVERAGE wage, 1990’s 3x, now around 10x so inflation is increasing rapidly) and 28 trillion dollars of
debt cannot be repaid by the government

So then people start questioning why we pay taxes when money is printed out of thin air and the insane debt doesn’t
matter for the gov? It made sense when it was pegged to gold, but not now. Most of this goes to war financing and into
commodities like oil.

This was all pretty evident in the 2008 housing crisis crash. Banks only hold 10% at best of fractional reserves. So if
all the population tries to take over 10% out the banks don’t have anything to give. The other 90% is lent out to make
more money. A poor system and with very little transparency. With the 2008 housing crisis all the banks were bailed out
though! So Satoshi invented BTC and that’s where crypto really became a ‘thing’.

So now I’m at the point where I can explain why Bitcoin became a thing. And why other cryptocurrencies have become
important also

So Satoshi invented Bitcoin to make something easily VERIFIABLE and RECOGNISABLE, RARE (only 21 million), DIVISIBLE (
much easier to divide than notes/gold because math, same goes to the 21 million), easy to TRANSPORT (can send to anyones
wallet anywhere in the world (this is important for billionaires too as they can transfer a billion for a few dollars
anywhere and not be questioned). It’s also TRANSPARENT as it’s a giant public ledger showing every transaction ever made

If my cold storage device is taken it doesn’t matter as long as I have my seed phrase I can buy another cold storage
device and recover it, while no one else can access it.

Now the next biggest innovation is Ethereum. This has allowed to extend capabilities of cryptocurrencies and allow
permissionless borrowing and lending. I don’t need an intermediary like a bank to give me permission. All I need is my
wallet and to interact with a protocol of my choice instead. The ultimate sovereignty and power into the people's hands
and their independent decisions.