Who controls the markets? Pulling back the mask on crypto as a whole. 

Introduction to the markets and major players

Crypto is a strange place. Aside from the fact that a 2009 whitepaper on a peer-to-peer digital currency has ballooned
to a sector worth over $1.5 trillion, crypto is incredibly hard to dissect for anyone, especially those new to the
scene. The goal of this article will be to provide a framework for understanding the inner workings of crypto,
possibilities for those getting into the space and ultimately how to navigate this constantly evolving landscape. Grab
your shovel, because we’re about to dive deep down the rabbit hole.

Behind crypto there are a variety of influential groups and figures. For those who don’t have much experience with
markets, the following might sound kind of odd. Crypto relies on market makers - people with lots of money - to make
sure that the market continues to operate as desired. From an outsider’s perspective, that might sound like some kind of
crime. Someone who controls the market, how can that be? A market maker’s primary job is to ensure that liquidity
remains in a market and trades execute at the desired price. In traditional markets, a market maker might operate by
targeting both the bid and the ask, profiting off of the spread. This process brings the spread closer together,
offering a more accurate price assuming liquidity is present.

In crypto, we also have automated market makers (AMMs) - these are market makers that operate thanks to smart contracts,
the building blocks of Ethereum that allow protocols to run. More on that another time, coding can be complex.

In addition to market makers, there are whales - these are individuals who have a lot of money, or in this case, crypto.
Because of how decentralized crypto is and how the markets are largely run by anons on Twitter - go give @Tetranode or
@IamNomad a follow and see for yourself. It isn’t detrimental to be anonymous, in fact, it’s pretty much encouraged in
crypto. While it’s great to have recognition for being rich, it’s even better to be anonymous and rich. These whales can
enjoy tens of thousands of followers in addition to the massive stores of wealth, all without having to deal with the
recognition in public which could spoil some of this.

Many whales can either remain managers of their own *massive* portfolios or choose to use their expertise and explore
venture capital. Whether it be starting their own fund or joining another as a partner, there are many opportunities in
helping out founders and getting projects off the ground. Whales have options, and they exercise everything in their
power to maintain control and preserve their wealth.

Aside from market makers and whales, there are developers - these are the individuals and teams who create protocols and
bring ideas to life. Whether it be a new blockchain like Avalanche, a scaling solution like Starkware or a new DeFi
protocol like Uniswap, developers are needed in just about every sector of crypto. Without them, there wouldn’t be code
or smart contracts to give us tokens that can go to the moon.

No matter what path you choose to take, it’s important to know your options. You don’t have to stick to the same path
forever, as there’s nobody holding you to it. Crypto moves lightning fast, and it’s encouraged to try and keep up with
everything new that happens - blink and you might miss it. Different ways to “make it” in crypto

Because of the vast possibilities in crypto, there are an equal number of wild and outside of the box ways to navigate
the market. There are those who prefer to stalk the BTC hourly chart, trading on 125x leverage and drawing a million
different lines to reflect their bias. Other more advanced market participants prefer to go on-chain, whether this be
the wild west of MEV searchers or those who stalk addresses on Etherscan to see what whales are buying. For those who
aren’t as technical, the art of fundamental analysis can serve you well.

Crypto is still incredibly juvenile, and because of this, the market often doesn’t reflect fundamentals. Sure, there are
a myriad of dog tokens in the cryptocurrency market, but there are just as many reputable and innovative products.
Whether this be an on-chain options protocol like Dopex, a DeFi protocol like yearn who offers stable yields or
something more innovative like OlympusDAO, there is no shortage of goodies to dive into. Maybe you’re looking to become
a maximalist of a certain blockchain - if this was your forte, you could have done well in 2021 evaluating quality
alternative Layer 1 blockchains earlier on like Solana, Avalanche or Luna.

Fundamental analysis can be very beneficial for spotting low-cap gems, or finding undervalued assets. If a protocol had
a TVL of something like $2 billion but was trading at a market cap of only $25 million, this could prove to be a very
lucrative play if all goes well. Opportunities like these aren’t scarce in crypto, due to the scattered nature of
different blockchains and the many protocols that inhabit them. As I said before, there is well over a trillion dollars
floating around - your job is to figure out where it’s headed to next. Final words of advice

If you’re still curious about crypto and want to get more involved in the day-to-day occurrences, you could always
create a Crypto Twitter account and become anon. Twitter is probably the most highly concentrated source for crypto
knowledge, as it’s where a majority of the community hangs out and discusses market happenings. It’s easy to get sucked
into YouTube or Reddit and find some bias for your bags, but Twitter is genuine and can teach you a variety of topics
that you might not find elsewhere. This is where all of the previously mentioned players go to hang out and talk about
everything going on in crypto - it can’t hurt to give it a shot. You’ll encounter bad actors, close friends, crypto giga
bulls and (unfortunately) bears.

Be wary, because crypto can be a very dangerous place for the uninformed. There are constant rugpulls, smart contract
hacks and people looking to steal your seed phrase. If you’re looking for more information on how to prevent this from
happening, it would be a good idea to consult INSERT WEBSITE. You could also listen to some podcasts to hear first hand
stories from others and how they got their start, a couple of good ones to check out are UpOnly and the FTX Podcast.
There’s also no shortage of quality writers in the space - Twitter is the perfect spot to find them. Try and make use of
these quality Substack and Medium articles, because more often than not, they’ve been written by those deeply involved
or connected to the space. It’s best to find those writing about trends or narratives before they take off, this way you
can get in early and (hopefully) earn better returns. Make some friends and don’t try to brave the markets alone,
there’s safety in numbers when it comes to crypto. 